[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Johnny Enoch, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
According to esoteric
teachings, survivors
of lost ancient
civilizations seeded us
through the mystery schools
and left behind a trail
of symbolic breadcrumbs.
In this episode, we
will explore the origins
of our ancient
progenitors, what happened
to them, and their
influence on us today.
Traditionally, there
have been many theories
about submerged continents, such
as Hyperborea or Plaksha, which
was believed to exist in the
far North of the Arctic Circle.
It was mentioned by
our ancient historians
like Herodotus and
Pliny the Elder.
We're told that they were
a beautiful race of giants
and used flying machines to
circumnavigate the Earth.
They inhabited a land free
from disease in old age
where the sun would
shine 24 hours a day.
Then there was Mu in
the Pacific Islands,
where Hawaii in
Vanuatu is today.
But probably the most
famous of these legends
comes from Atlantis and Lemuria.
The theories about Lemuria
come from a 19th century
British lawyer and
zoologist, Philip Sclater,
who was perplexed by
the presence of lemur
fossils in Madagascar
and India after none
could be found in mainland
Africa or the Middle East.
In 1864, he wrote
an article entitled,
"The Mammals of Madagascar,"
where he theorized
that Madagascar
and India were once
part of a larger submerged
continent in the Indian Ocean
called Lemuria.
And for a while, his theory
was really starting to take off
and was adopted everywhere.
But what's confusing
about this subject
is that while some people
use the name Lemuria
as being synonymous
with Atlantis or Mu,
it didn't just come
out of nowhere.
It actually has a very
specific geographically
and linguistic connection.
In my conversations with
JP Hague, a British lawyer
and researcher
living in Mauritius,
he tells me that "lemur"
is an ancient Malagasy
word from Madagascar meaning
the souls of the departed.
At the turn of the
20th century, it
seemed like Sclater's
Lemuria theory was completely
debunked due to new
sciences emerging
at the time about continental
drift and plate tectonics.
However, that didn't
stop Tamil revisionists
from adopting the story
into their literature
around India, which
they already had
a similar pre-existing theory
from around the 2nd century
CE that was written in
"The Silappadikaram," one
of the five great
Tamil epic stories.
It was about this
ancient place called
Kumari Kandam that was ruled
by the Pandiyan kings for 9,990
years.
It says in there that the
cruel sea took their land.
The Tamil writers
would also claim
that this was the place where
the Brahmins or priests reside,
were Shiva was worshipped, and
where the Vedas are recited.
Lemuria was even mentioned by
the great Russian occultist
and psychic, Helena
Petrovna Blavatsky.
In "The Secret Doctrine,"
Lemuria was called Shalmali,
and it was a lush,
beautiful tropical paradise
until volcanoes
erupted everywhere,
destroying it and
submerging it underwater.
According to
theosophists, Lemuria
began over 34 and 1/2
million years ago.
It was inhabited by a
hermaphrodite race of giants
that were 15 feet
tall, had four arms,
and were coexisting with the
dinosaurs around the middle
of the Jurassic period.
They would later evolve into
various primitive hominid
groups.
The idea of a
submerged continent
is not hard to
imagine if you think
of places like Port
Royal in Jamaica,
just outside of Kingston,
which was once a bustling port
city of great importance to
the British empire and home
to the pirate Sir Henry Morgan.
2/3 of the town, or 33 acres,
sunk into the sea within hours
and disappeared off the map
after an earthquake in 1692.
And there are
countless other places
like this, such as
Thonis-Heracleion,
just outside of
Alexandria in Egypt,
or the underwater
temples discovered
near Okinawa in Japan, and
the submerged pyramids off
the west coast of Cuba.
In recent years,
new interest has
emerged into Sclater's
Lemuria theory,
and you might even say
he's been vindicated.
In fact, scientists have
made important discoveries
on the island of Mauritius,
claiming that not only does
this part of the
Indian Ocean have
a strong gravitational
pull, indicating a thicker
crust below, but they
found a strange mineral
crystal on its
beaches called zircon
that's 3 billion years old
and has radioactive particles.
This has puzzled
geologists since Mauritius
is only 8 million years old.
There's also a land bridge
off the northwestern coast
of Sri Lanka that
connects to India
and is made from limestone
shoals or sandbars.
It's called Rama's
Bridge because of a story
we get from the Indian epic,
"The Ramayana," when Rama
is sent into exile
by his father and has
to rescue his wife Sita from
Ravana, a 10-headed demon king.
In order to complete
that, he and his brother
Lakshmana assemble a large
army of ape-like men,
but they need a way
to cross the water.
This is when they get
help in its construction
from the Vanaras, or
the forest people.
According to the story, the
bridge was built in five days
and was 100 leagues in length.
This structure has also been
called Adam's Bridge, which
it's believed in Islam that
this is the place that Adam
fell from the Garden of Eden.
But what's fascinating about
that is that geologists now
tell us that these places
are in fact connected
and the continent
of Mauritia was part
of an enormous
supercontinent called
Gondwana, which broke up and
became Antarctica, Africa,
Australia, and South America.
Another interesting
fact is that we
know that the sand on
the beach of Australia
actually comes from
Antarctica and is hundreds
of millions of years old.
Another strange fact is
that lake Titicaca in Peru
is over 12,500 feet
above sea level
and has fossilized seashells
and seahorses in it.
Not only do we believe it
was once a great seaport,
but we know that the Andes
are relatively new mountains.
In other words, someone managed
to get up there fast enough
to build walls around the place.
When I visited those
parts with Brien Foerster,
I was captivated by the
megalithic structures
at Tiwanaku and
Pumapunku in Bolivia,
where we find evidence
for advanced machining
and magnetic anomalies
around the infamous H blocks.
The whole place is crawling
with subterranean networks.
Even the blocks there
show vitrification
from some sort of
extreme heat or scorching
by a cataclysmic event.
But what I find most
interesting about Mauritius
is that there are these seven
ancient pyramids there aligned
with the bodies of Orion,
built from volcanic rock.
Also think about what
Blavatsky tells us
with the eruptions of
volcanoes destroying Lemuria.
Nearby, there are connected
islands and strange mountains
in the shape of a skull and
a lion, or a sphinx shape.
But speaking of
pyramids and sphinxes,
we cannot leave this subject
without talking about Atlantis.
The location of Atlantis
has been speculated
by countless scholars.
We have the traditional theory
held by Manly P. Hall, Ignatius
Donnelly, and Blavatsky, who
said that Atlantis was probably
located in the middle
of the Atlantic Ridge.
That's right in the middle
of the Atlantic Ocean.
Of course, in the
story, we learn
about something known as
the pillars of Hercules.
Well, those could be
the rock of Gibraltar.
And then, of course, we would
see the Azores and Canary
Islands acting like
their mountain peaks
with a slow
migration, coming out
while Europe was still under
ice, melting after the last Ice
Age.
Even Rudolf Steiner, who
used the science called
anthroposophy, an earlier
type of remote viewing
or a psychic
archaeology, to look
at what he called
the Atlantean Epoch,
claimed that it
existed at a time
when Europe was not even around.
Why the Lemuria
story is important
is that we're told
that Atlantis was
an extension of the survivors
of Lemuria in the same way
that Egypt was an extension
of the Atlanteans.
They inherited their rituals,
they inherited their teachings
in the very same way
that we are inheriting
those of the ancient
civilizations that
came before us today.
But if Egypt was an
extension of the Atlanteans,
we find similar structures
to theirs all over the world.
For example, we find pyramids
on both sides of the Atlantic.
We find pyramids over in
Mexico, with Chichen Itza,
over in Teotihuacan.
We find them over in
Tikal in Guatemala.
There's over 140 pyramids
in the Azorean islands,
and some of the largest
pyramids in the world
are found in China.
This was a continental
diffusion of culture.
Where I think people
go wrong in theorizing
the location of Atlantis is
they think much too small.
When we want to imagine where
these great pre-cataclysmic
civilizations existed we have
to think of the supercontinents.
Or think of Pangaea, where when
we look at a map or an atlas,
you see it looks like all
the continents fit together
like puzzle pieces.
Even in the Bible, we
find in Genesis 10:25,
it says, and to Eber
were born two sons.
The name of one was
Peleg, for in his days
the Earth was divided.
This is literally
telling us that we
have records of a great
continental diffusion
of cultures.
While we know that the original
Atlantis story at the Temple
Nefru has since washed
away on the Nile Delta,
we find an exact
copy of that story
over at the Temple
of Edfu in Egypt.
When I visited there with
Egyptologist Mohamed Ibrahim,
he's decoded the entire
story on the wall for me
as we see these great
seafaring people.
And what's really interesting
about the advanced knowledge
and culture they brought
with them, on the walls
we noticed that there is a great
cataclysmic event portrayed
above them with a serpent that
is coming down to destroy them.
And while some authors
and researchers out there,
like Graham Hancock,
have theorized
that this illustration depicts
an asteroid of sorts coming
towards the Earth, we
know in the mysteries
that the serpent
always represents
electromagnetic energy.
I think that what happened
is around 12,000 years ago
the Atlanteans were
experimenting with this energy
and gravity using our
Earth's grid of ley lines,
harnessed by the power
of pyramids and obelisks,
causing something that
geologists call the Younger
Dryas Cataclysm or the
meltwater pulse 1B.
This melted the polar ice caps,
causing sea levels to rise.
And what we would
have found is there
was a shift in the axis of the
Earth by 23 and 1/2 degrees,
moving the equatorial lines.
But I think there could have
been a combination of asteroids
and solar eruptions.
This would have caused
a change in the Earth's
gravitational fields,
causing a mini Ice Age.
That means that the North
and South Pole would have
been very different places.
As even Immanuel
Velikovsky points out
in "Worlds in Collision,"
that we can find
flash frozen tropical
flora and fauna and mammals
in the Arctic.
When I visited the
ancient temples of Egypt
with Brien Foerster,
we've gone to places
like Luxor and Karnak, and Brien
has used various instruments,
like his Tesla
meters, to measure
the pre-cataclysmic
entrances to the temples.
And what he's
found is that these
are 23 and 1/2 degrees off
from the cardinal directions
of north, east, south, west.
This proves the theory that
these temples existed at a time
before the cataclysms.
At that point, we're told
that the surface of the Earth
became unlivable, so
these groups descended
into the subterranean
depths of the Earth.
One author named Valerie Bonwick
has a very interesting series
of books, which she claims
to be in telepathic contact
with the survivors of
Atlantis called the Dagonites,
and tells us that they have
underwater bases to this day.
Edgar Cayce, the
Sleeping Prophet,
tells us that before
the destruction
of this great continent,
the Atlanteans
were scientifically
advanced and had
flying machines and submarines.
Could their survivors have
seeded our civilizations
after the cataclysms?
I tend to think so.
We learn from
Diodorus of Sicily,
who wrote in the "Bibliotheca
Historica" in 50 BCE
that "the Egyptians were
strangers who, in remote times,
settled on the
banks of the Nile,
bringing with them the
civilization of their mother
country, which might have been
Atlantis, the art of writing
in a polished language.
They'd come from the
direction of the setting
sun, or the far west, and
were the most ancient of men."
So we know that the
Atlanteans spread out
after these cataclysms.
According to Plutarch,
the gods of ancient Egypt
were actually the antediluvian,
or pre-cataclysmic,
kings who were deified, were
made into gods after death.
This was probably the way
that the dynastic Egyptians
saw them, as these great
gods or their progenitors,
the survivors of Atlantis.
Perhaps J.R.R. Tolkien's
"Lord of the Rings"
wasn't far off when he talked
about the Middle Earth,
as we've heard about the
inhabitants of Cappadocia,
Turkey, the tunnels used
by the Templar Knights
under Scotland, and
the Tuatha de Danann,
or the people of
the goddess of Danu
in Ireland, that arrived onto
their shores with flying ships,
only later to flee underground
with the arrival of the Fir
Bolg, or the Men with Bags.
Maybe some of you have
heard of the Men with Bags,
as we find pictures of them
from all over the world.
Some theorize all
kinds of crazy things,
like maybe they're holding some
kind of psychedelic substance
and they're handing it
to primitive people out
of their bags, or
this is some sort
of weapon from the future that
has electromagnetic qualities.
But the answer is
more mundane, as we
find them from the Assyrians,
the Akkadians, the Phoenician
Canaanites, the
Etruscans, and many people
do trip out on them.
But when I wanted to get
the story about them,
I had to visit
the British Museum
and talk to the historians
about these depictions
that we find on the
reliefs or the depictions
on the walls at the Assyrian
section of the museum.
Their answer was
very interesting.
When we look at
them directly, you
see they're holding
something in their hand.
I was told that is the
date, or the date palm.
And in their bag, I'm
told that that is pollen.
Why that's very
interesting is that these
are the ancient
pollinators of humanity.
We know the date palm has
long since been associated
in the Middle East with
beekeepers that need
a beehive for harvesting honey.
What's also very interesting
about this symbology
is that all the early
Egyptian and Babylonian kings
were called the Beekeepers.
When Adam Weishaupt
was first starting
the Bavarian Illuminati
on May 1, 1776,
he originally wanted to
call them the Beekeepers.
In fact, we find
the symbolism is
very important to Freemasonry
and our secret societies,
as the little honeybee
is very industrious
and it's associated with
hard work and determination.
We even find that the coin
of emphasis had a bee on it.
When we examine the
headdress of the nimbus
of the Egyptian king,
according to Manly P. Hall's
"Secret Teachings of All
Ages," not only does this
represent the auric body,
or the energy field,
but we might also look at it
as representing the honeybee.
This is very important
when we consider the fact
that the early Egyptian kings
were all called the Beekeepers,
and this represents their
role as the great pollinators
of humanity.
But speaking of
ancient worlds, when
we go back to J.R.R.
Tolkien, we know
he spent a lot of
time writing at a pub
near the cliffs of Moore,
right next to the Gollum caves.
And of course, in
the story, Smeagol
turns into the Gollum
creature obsessed
with a golden ring forged
by dark Lord Sauron
in the fires of Mount Doom
as he hissed, my precious.
Do we have anthropological
evidence for such extinct races
and civilizations?
Well, we have to look no further
than a short, ancient hominid
race that lived over 17,000
years ago, that are literally
called hobbits, or
Homo floresiensis.
They were discovered on the
Flores Island of Indonesia.
And then there are the legends
of the 4-foot-tall Pygmy people
who inhabited Greenland and
northern Canada, mentioned
in the 16th century by
the geographer Mercator.
We're told they were wiped out
by large and aggressive birds
or cranes.
Manly P. Hall tells us in "The
Secret Teachings of All Ages"
that today's civilization was
inherited from the Atlanteans
with our arts and crafts,
philosophies and sciences,
ethics and religions, but
also our hate, our strife,
and our perversions.
The Atlanteans instigated the
first war, and all other wars
after those were fought
in a fruitless effort
to justify the first one
and right the wrong which
it caused.
Blavatsky tells us in her work,
"Isis Unveiled," that Atlantis
became corrupted and
fell under an evil ruler
of the era, Thevatat.
This caused the Atlanteans
to become wicked magicians,
or maybe we could
say scientists,
and a war was declared.
This was created out of
the disfigured allegory
of the race of Cain or
giants in the story of Noah.
If we think about
the famous story
of Noah's Ark for a
moment, biblical scholars
maintain that it can be
found on top of Mount
Ararat in present day Armenia.
This is very significant when
we think of the story as Noah
the Atlantean.
After all, we're told
that much like the story
of the flood in Genesis,
where the water rose up
from the Earth, or
the underwater mantle,
Atlanta suffered earthquakes
and floods, swallowing it up,
as we find a lot of
interesting clues
when we look up at migration
patterns towards high altitude
places, like the Ural
Mountains in Eurasia,
Machu Picchu, or Tibet.
Blavatsky goes on to say,
the conflict came to an end
by the submersion
of the Atlantis,
which finds its imitation in
the stories of the Babylonian
and Mosaic flood.
The giants and magicians and
all flesh died in every man,
all except Xisuthrus and Noah,
who are substantially identical
with the great father of the
[NON-ENGLISH] in the "Popol
Vuh" or the sacred book
of the Guatemalans,
which also tells of his
escaping in a large boat,
like the Hindu Noah, Vaivasvata.
We know before Atlantis
was submerged underwater,
its spiritually illumined
masters and initiates
recognized that Atlantis
was on a path of destruction
and it deviated from the light,
so they established themselves
in Egypt, where they became
the first divine rulers.
These priests brought with them
the sacred and secret doctrine,
which is where the
myth of the dying
God, astrological
sciences, the cross,
and the serpentine
rulers came from.
Even the colors of
red, white, and blue
that we find on the American
flag came from Atlantis.
This is also connected to
Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva.
Nearly all our great
cosmological myths
forming the foundation of
the various sacred books
of the world are based upon the
Atlantean mystery traditions.
Another great secret about
how the Atlantis story has
been preserved is that if you go
into the last book of the Bible
called Revelation, this is
based on something called
the Book of the Apocalypse.
But if you ask
any good Christian
out there, who wrote
the Book of Revelation,
they will tell you it
came from John of Patmos.
But of course, we know
that John of Patmos
is belonging to something called
the Johannine or Johannine
theory that attributes
this book to him.
But all the great
church fathers that
came along, from Martin
Luther to Erasmus,
they all dismissed this.
They said the Book of Revelation
was not a Christian book,
and it was tossed out of the
Bible over a dozen times.
We know that when Christianity
came to take over paganism
and christianize
the mysteries, this
was a way of the pagan
doctrines being preserved.
In fact, if you go
to any good minister
and ask them to really decode
what the symbolism in this book
means, they'll have a
pretty hard time really
telling you its origins.
The reason for that
is that this book
comes from these very ancient
monks that lived on that island
called Patmos in this rocky
area of the Aegean Sea.
They served two gods.
One of those god's name
was Attis and the other
was Ion, the god of the
air and electricity.
This is just like,
as Blavatsky said,
the Atlanteans were ruled over
by an invisible serpent king
of the air called Thevatat.
Well, Ion was this god
that was ruling over them
and gave them this
book of the apocalypse.
Well, in this story, we
find that it is essentially
the Atlantis story.
In the Atlantis story,
we have the seven cities.
Well, in the Book of Revelation,
when it was romanized,
we know that there are
seven hills of Rome.
It's talking about a warning
for an advanced civilization,
that you don't want to take a
mark to buy, sell, or trade,
and is describing a bee
system, which very much sounds
like some sort of
artificial intelligence
or other sorts of
advanced systems
that led to the corruption and
the downfall of the Atlanteans.
But the Atlantis story
doesn't end there,
as the mystery schools have
seeded many civilizations,
which every time
one is destroyed,
another rises from the ashes
like the great Phoenician
Firebird known as the Phoenix.
This brings us to the
story of Sir Francis
Bacon in the 16th century.
Sir Francis Bacon is
known as the father
of modern Freemasonry.
We know he was
born Francis Tudor
and he was the bastard
son of Queen Elizabeth.
According to esoteric
teachings, Francis Bacon
was the true identity
of William Shakespeare.
This comes from something known
as the Baconian theory, where
we're told that there's no
way that Shakespeare, who
was a Stratford man who could
barely spell his own name,
could write these brilliant
incredible books with so
many layers of different
analogies and ideas
and stories.
And what we're told is that
he was writing these books
to prepare the minds of the
civilization for something
he called the New Atlantis,
which was the great plot
to build America from
the Masonic orders
and secret societies.
These great works were a way
of elevating our consciousness
and bringing us to a point
where we wouldn't make
the same mistakes as the past.
In the very same
way, you might say
that we are currently evolving
for our next great unfolding
of civilization.
If there's a takeaway from
studying Atlantis, Lemuria,
and ancient
civilization, we know
that they rose to greatness.
We know at times they
were drunk on ambition
and had the psychosis
of success, which
later became their downfall.
As we look to the
future, let us not
make the same mistakes as
the past, but grow from all
that we have
inherited from them.
We should ask ourselves, how
can we be of service to others,
be more kind and
compassionate, and learn to be
the caretakers of this planet?
Let us grow and evolve
together into an even greater
civilization than ever before.
I'm Johnny Enoch, and thanks for
watching "Mystery Teachings."